Okay.
What's productive?
Well, one of the reasons why there's so much gossip in the field is because it is small, it is coherent, and it is a community of interest.
People share one another's enthusiasm, if not their passions always.
And it does involve passions.
And it does involve, and sometimes, not always, but no matter, you know, whatever the level of emotional involvement, there's enough shared interest that it does generate a lot.
two things and then we can start thinking of wrapping up.
I know you've just given me a very generous lazy day today.
Um, tell me about your, now you work at the, you're involved at the Grolier Club for the exhibit of Manny's stuff.
Yeah.
Tell me a little bit about that.
Well, I'm on the council of the Grolier Club and as a member of the council, I was asked to chair the committee on small exhibitions and
So we organized through the committee three or four exhibitions a year.
Question?
Interrupt with a question?
Sure.
Did you people approach Manny, or did Manny suggest it to you?
Well, we had a meeting, and we discussed a number of ideas.
One of the members of the committee was a bookseller named Jim Cummins.
Jim was the principal agent, Dick Manny.
Yeah, and Dick's name came up.
I don't know that
Jim suggested it.
I think maybe he didn't.
But he certainly was willing to assist in terms of... And I know Jim is a very nice man.
He's a fine person.
And he volunteered his assistance.
And I think this was in March of the year before Dick put his exhibition on.
So I really think that the origins of this were in good faith.
However, by the time the exhibition was put on, Manny...
himself if Jim didn't know.
Manny knew if Jim didn't.
And then, as I said at lunch, Peter Krause came along and said, oh, what a great idea for a small dinner.
I'll ask Dick to come.
Dick went and evidently acted as something of the nature of a shill.
Were you at the dinner?
No, I was not at the dinner.
And I didn't hear about this right away.
And then, actually, what happened was that
A number of people then telephoned me subsequent to it and said, you know, there was a terrible thing that happened.
And I didn't, up until that time, I didn't even know that Dick's collection was to fail.
So I felt mortified because I felt like I'd been put in a compromising position, even though I knew better.
But no one else would know that.
And it made us look very bad, I thought.
The other thing about it was there were people at the dinner who were really offended by his behavior, stood up and told him.
And I had dinner or a lunch with Ken Loft, and
This might embarrass Ken.
Ken told me that.
I think it was Elizabeth Lyley who really means him from one end of the room to the other.
But that's what I'm told anyway.
There's another woman.
And another woman might have... I wonder if it was Betsy Shirley?
Could it have been Betsy?
I know the name.
Her husband just died.
Oh, Mary Schlosser.
Mary Schlosser.
Mary Schlosser is the, quote, unspeakably blogger.
Mary is a very outspoken woman.
I can imagine her saying that.
Well, whoever, and one of these people turned to Ken Loft.
I didn't hear that from me, by the way.
Because I didn't hear it from her, I heard it from somebody who heard it from her.
But it's in character, certainly.
It certainly is.
Very much.
One of them turned to Ken Loft, who was president of the club and was president that night.
and said, well, Kent, don't you think this is the most vulgar or whatever, you know, insulting behavior and most inappropriate?
I could hear Mary Hyde calling it unclogable behavior.
Was Mary Hyde?
I don't know if she was there.
Anyway, Kent evidently stood up and said, well, everybody knows my opinion on this subject and probably said.
Well, of course, he was just trying to avoid being dragged into the controversy at all.
And his response was to say, well, this is wowing.
This was at the dinner of this house?
At the dinner.
So there was an outbreak?
There was a fight fight.
There was angry accusation recrimination.
But the suggestion made it that it certainly had the appearance of his using the occasion to promote the sale of it.
It's not the exhibition.
Well, the exhibition, well, you couldn't ask for a better showcase of the materials which are going to be sold in three months.
That's what I mean.
That's my point, yeah.
That the dinner and the exhibition taken collectively could be seen as a kind of... And I knew that that was not the committee's... And almost as a sample of endorsement from the... Right.
Exactly.
And how do I feel?
How do you feel?
I felt terrible about it because I thought that... I've asked Manny about this to come.
And what did he say?
Oh, it was all in good faith, and it was all honest, and when the thing was set up, the business was still good, and it was a pure coincidence, but I had not at that point heard about the comments at the dinner.
Well, what should have happened, so I think he was giving me a selective thing.
And he should have called me, and he should have said, look, he didn't have to tell me why, I don't care why he spoke this question, but he should have made us aware
of what was going on.
That was his mistake.
He's very selective in what he's telling you.
Well, you know, I mean, people are selective.
He was telling me about his financial problems.
He didn't mention to me that he was too, that, that, that, that voluntary pickers, you know, he would be, as we spoke, not that you would expect him necessarily to volunteer the information either.
Well, I would tell you the truth.
Really?
Because he expects him, he knows the terms
We met him with the understanding that we were talking honestly, and I don't want to be embarrassed.
I would be very embarrassed to write this piece about him and not know about this.
I remember at the opening that I remember thinking to myself, here's a guy who's just absolutely full of himself.
The first person singular just pervaded his conversation in a way that
I felt, you know, I was all put off by it, you know.
Well, I remember now, when I... Oh, I think there are any number of booksellers who were really told.
Peter Howard said, and I'm not talking out of school, because they're quotes I intend to use in the book.
I have no problem saying things that people told me, because I'm using the unspeakable vulgar coin, I'm not attributing it for the individual, because I didn't get it to understand.
Peter Howard says on the one hand, I despise everything a man stands for, on the one hand.
On the other hand, I wouldn't have my million and a half dollar building in Burden if it were for Carter Burden and Dick Manny.
He throws that figure out repeatedly, million and a half dollar building.
Well, the trade, I mean, the great variable, the great
kind of secret is the role of the trade, which I think drives the passion, guides it and forms it, and at the same time lives off of it and stops at the trough of it in a way that is in some ways pretty unlovely.
A lot of what happens
in pursuit of that self-interest.
I think, personally, I haven't met too many, strictly well selected, but I haven't met too many booksellers I trust.
You know who can't stand booksellers?
He's one of them, Larry McWordry.
Yeah.
He wouldn't talk to me because he doesn't want to... He's very funny.
He wants to be written about, but he doesn't want to be... I don't like him.
I had to say to the point where I'm not going to write about him because there are too many other people.
He sent me to Peter Howard.
He was his keynote speaker at an event.
I was involved in Texas a few years ago.
I thought he was a sanctimonious son of a bitch.
Yeah, he said that he was very sanctimonious son of a bitchy thing, at least two weddings that we exchanged.
You want to hear a couple of cute Carter Burden anecdotes?
Well, one of them, I think I started to tell you about the fact that his wife complained to me about walking down the hallway of their apartment and they had to have the books over seven feet and walk into his son's bedroom and there's not a toy in it.
It's all Carter's books.
I mean, they're everywhere.
Well, they were everywhere.
And this is the current wife.
Susan.
Okay.
Right.
Not... Amanda.
No, no.
No, this is Susan.
Yeah.
And, well, there's a story that...
Glenn Harwood, I spent one very biblialist night in South Carolina visiting a collector that we were interested in in a different region.
Actually, for the same reason.
Sure.
And Glenn got pretty well into his cuffs, and one of the things he started telling me was the story about how Carter, the young collector, was well within the swall of Maggie Combs, who I'm sure you've heard her idea about.
And his written name came up.
And Gwen, who was a young Cairo himself in the business, was... What was his friend?
Yeah, he had a very kind of Lower East Side background in a lot of different respects.
He's a very smart guy, though.
I mean, he's really... He's a nice guy.
A lot of people don't like him.
I kind of like him.
He can be abrasive.
But so can everybody else.
Anyway, Glenn was supplying Maggie with literary firsts of a fairly specific nature.
And she was always kind of mysterious about the wise and the wise.
And he figured, well, what the hell, he was getting some good business out of it, even if she was paying him a pretty small mock-up fund.
on the books this year.
One day, and then he had a little shot from him down someplace in the lower 30s.
I've never mentioned a shot.
He's uptown now, and he's just in an office someplace, in an office building.
I haven't been to this place.
And one day Carter Burden wandered in, looking as tight and looking very scholarly.
They felt talking and enjoyed one another's
and Carter promised he'd come back.
And Glenn didn't know some Adam at the time.
Bill didn't know him.
He came back a few more times.
And I guess over the course of time, two things happened.
One was that Glenn found out who he was.
And the other thing was that they both realized, almost at the same moment, that they were being thoroughly manipulated by Maggie Combs.
And at that point, Carter, of course, shifted his loyalty to Glenn, to the enduring
Irritation, if not enmity of Maggie Cohen, who never did quite forget Glenn.
I understand that she actually considered Father Sue against Carter because she won her money.
Did you know that?
No, I hadn't.
Off the record.
That is absolutely awful.
Well, also, I mean, I'll throw you off the record that Carter has an absolutely terrible reputation for two things.
One is treatment for two.